yo what's up some of you might be
wondering why I haven't been talking
much about my personal life lately on
this channel it is not that I've been
censoring myself for that I've decided
to separate that aspect of what's going
on with me from what I talked about on
YouTube quite the contrary my
apprehension has been that I didn't want
to make statements that would be
contradicted by the facts just a few
weeks later although in some ways my
life has been numb stagnant shall we say
sitting at this desk working through a
stack of books writing a series of
essays the University grind in other
ways my circumstances have been changing
my outlook my expectations for the
future have been changing rapidly a week
to week and sometimes day to day
actually today my expectations for
what's going to happen in the next 12
months are dramatically different what
they were just one week ago I had a lot
of new information coming in from
different sources related to jobs
education and also related to my divorce
in this phase of my life everything I'm
doing directly and indirectly is
influenced by my daughter even though my
daughter is largely absent from my life
for those who don't know you can click
back to earlier videos and you can see a
couple minutes of video footage from the
time I spent with my daughter during the
Christmas vacation I don't celebrate
Christmas however it's conventional to
refer to it as the Christmas holiday if
you will um this came up in a discussion
recently when I point there to someone
someone who knows me well that you know
the reason why I was learning Chinese I
don't know just one year ago was because
of the expectation that Chinese as a
language was going to be a huge part of
my daughter's life my ex-wife and I we
decided that we would raise my daughter
with her two languages being English and
Chinese now the different reasons for
that including my ex-wife's academic
specialization she's not ethnically
Chinese you can probably tell from the
video of my kid my kid isn't
half chinese but my ex-wife she studied
china and her work her intellectual life
is wrapped up in china and um it was not
I mean look some yuppies in the suburbs
somewhere might decide on a whim to try
to teach their kid Chinese but this is a
very serious decision that we made and
we backed it up with real action we
actually packed up and moved to Taiwan
with a newborn baby okay so we're not
messing around we got an airplane we
moved to Taiwan needless to say I did
all the heavy lifting and you know my
wife was still breastfeeding and you
know i bought the furniture and
physically carried the furniture from
the furniture store to the house we
rented it was actually a small house it
was a house the size of an apartment
intel on this was a whole process and we
were really committed to for several
years living in a chinese-speaking
environment so this was not a kind of
minor or trivial thing in deciding to
raise my daughter speaking Chinese and
so I had an emotional as well as an
intellectual commitment to learning
Chinese that really comes out of my
family circumstances if you want to put
it that way that's one of the reasons
why it was so devastating to me when my
university situation proved to be so
terrible here in Canada that I could not
continue studying Chinese and the
complaints concerning that went to the
Ombudsman went to the head of the
department went to the Dean and
ultimately went to Parliament it's quite
a story to tell and the positive side of
it is although several the professor's
sort of hated me in the short term and
reacted very negatively the fact that
was pointing out what was wrong with
this department which ultimately I was
just doing to try to save myself I mean
you know I really was not trying to
cause problems for anyone I wasn't
trying to win an argument ideologically
or philosophically but it was like look
I'm in a crisis because of what's wrong
with this department and I need you guys
to help me that's the bottom line but
when I could not continue with that and
sorry what I was I just interrupted
myself the positive thing that came out
of those complaints was that in the end
one by one those professors recognized
that what I was complaining about was
substantive that my complaint was
well-intentioned and that I was pointing
out things that were seriously wrong
demonstrably wrong and I had
demonstrated them just yesterday I had a
professor talk to me about that verbally
again several times and at different
points in time professors have come
forward and said yeah you know what I
realize now of what you presented at
that meeting with the Dean yeah this is
worth thinking about you know what you
wrote those emails about it wasn't for
nothing and what I say back is well it's
nice to imagine that that'll improve
things for students here are five years
in the future but doesn't help me
because I came here to learn Chinese and
that proved to be impossible so the
short term decision that was that was
there was a lot of anguish and making it
was to switch from Chinese the Japanese
and it more recent videos in the channel
I've been talking about learning
Japanese moving to Japan as of this
moment in making this video it is really
uncertain will I continue to work on
Japanese and I mean in the next six
months I mean the immediate future will
I continue to work on Japanese will I go
back to studying Chinese or will I have
to give up on Asian languages entirely
and if I did that the most likely
language I would switch to studying
would be French French may not be
terribly exotic or interesting and the
reason for that again is my daughter
when I met my daughter she was speaking
as her primary Nate language not English
and not Chinese she was speaking French
now that wasn't the plan I remember one
of the questions that was put to me
especially by my ex lawyer I have an
ex-wife but also have an ex-lawyer I
hired a new lawyer afterwards but my
former lawyer I remember asked me why
when I found out the situation was what
it was why didn't I pack up and move to
France right away to be with my daughter
and so this is right back when the
divorce first happened and one things I
said to her which it's obvious to me but
wasn't obvious to the people I said you
know my ex-wife she only moved to France
very temporarily at that time what she
told me and it would think it was
sincere
was that she was going to France for
only a couple of months and then was
going to pack up and move to the United
States almost immediately and again
within the United States it was very
likely she would move to seattle now
where i live in canada is a five minute
trip from seattle i exaggerated slightly
but i'm right next to seattle that was
one of my reasons for moving here and at
that time i wrote to my ex-wife and said
well look you said you were maybe going
to move to seattle now I'm living here
and again for a divorced couple that's a
good situation like okay you know we're
not next door neighbors but you know
we're a quick trip were in two cities
that are right next to each other you
can travel back and forth any time
trying to get this kind of positive
situation set up now needless to say
that did not happen but you can see that
given the information I had at the time
and all the circumstances in divorce
that not only did I have no reason to
move to France I thought at that time my
wife was either going to be living in
New York or Seattle immediately and
again our connections to China are so
strong she could indeed pack up and move
to China or Taiwan or somewhere else in
Asia I continue to live with that
uncertainty there really continues to be
no way for me to plan my short-term or
long-term future in connection to my
daughter or to plan to have a career
than the meaningful sense connects to my
daughter it's just not the case that I
can commit to French as a language or
say a plan to become a I know a
schoolteacher in Quebec or something let
alone a schoolteacher in France and
think that this will solve my problems
that way and on the other hand in terms
of what my resume shows I was a scholar
of Buddhism for about 10 years but I was
not a scholar of Buddhism only I've
always cared about poverty politics
slavery struggle real history real
material history and economics economics
never stop being a passion for me
economics as the philosophy of poverty
and all these things show up in my CV
when I'm presenting my resume to people
some people are tremendously positively
impressed and some people are not
because they don't want to hang out with
somebody but you know my resume does in
many ways reflect the kind of person I
wasn't the kind of person I am
I went to Asia looking for a combination
of humanitarian work and research
research that was partly ancient partly
contemporary etc but today standing at
the crossroads I'm at right now at this
university and in this university
department that's been so problematic
we're really this department can't offer
me any kind of opportunities neither
short-term opportunities for learning
languages nor career opportunities the
problem is for me to plot the next step
in my path in a way that builds on my cv
and resume positively and doesn't
abandon everything I've accomplished in
my cv and resume to move off in a
totally different direction um yeah
that's all I had to say in this update
video oh I could say more but the
problem is just lately the reason why I
haven't been talking about personal life
is that everything is subject to change
and in the next two weeks everything I
know now really could change again